Do you know what Jordan Peterson thinks about Bitcoin and about,
about the future impact about, of Bitcoin on the society?
No, I don't actually. Um,
we're hopefully gonna be talking to him soon about that. We did a,
a book club on his book maps of meaning and he engaged with about it.
So we're hoping to deliver the orange bill to Mr. Peterson,
the orange bill <laugh> <laugh>. I think his audience, um,
is one of the most important audiences in the world to understand Bitcoin,
these people that are conscientious and responsible.
Um,
I think they'll quickly understand Bitcoin's value proposition <affirmative> and
help elucidate it to the world.
I'm trying to remember what he said about, about it. Basically.
I think his support of Bitcoin is grounded in the kind of
people who are opposing Bitcoin mm-hmm <affirmative>.
So without understanding Bitcoin,
he starts to like Bitcoin because of the people who are opposing it.
He's, you know, you start to, I mean,
that's partially why I am interested in Bitcoin.
It's like all the people in, uh,
in power mm-hmm <affirmative> and all the kind of shady,
fraudulent and non genuine people who are dismissing
Bitcoin. Yeah. Uh, are making me think, Hmm. One of.
One of, uh,
Jordan's definitions of God is he says,
God is found in the truthful speech that rectifies pathological hierarchies.
And
I think that is a beautiful definition of what Bitcoin is doing in the world.
And that have this pathological hierarchy called central banking by which
the rich get richer and the poor get poorer, um,
that is used as a mechanism for perpetual theft and funding
warfare at a global scale. Uh, like Ron Paul said,
it's no coincidence that the 20th century of total war was also of the century
of central banking. Um,
when you have an institution of currency counterfeiting,
which the central bank is, you are no longer bounded by your own balance sheet.
When you go to war, you don't have to just go to war on your own resources.
You can now pillage the Commonwealth and pull for the savings of society
as a whole, before you go bankrupt. And indeed, this is what Hitler did, right?
Hitler hyperinflated, uh, in the Weimar Republic to,
to fund his war efforts. Um, and frankly, every dictator,
every world war,
every internment camp in history was made possible by
the weaponization of money and Fiat currency.
So I hope I know Jordan Peterson is a huge proponent of free
speech, and I think that's ultimately at, at its deep essence,
that's what Bitcoin really is, right.
It is just the purest form of monetary speech we've ever had.
And by purifying that primary operating system of human action,
I think we can eliminate this pathological hierarchy that is
unfortunately the dominant institution in the world today.
Yeah, I I'm definitely, especially with these explorations of Bitcoin, uh,
this journey I've been on,
I'll revisit some of the thi some of the aspects of human history that I've been
looking at, like Stalin and Hitler with a,
from a perspective of a monetary perspective. Mm-hmm, <affirmative> like,
what are the effects of inflation?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> how was it used as a tool in, um,
in gaining power and maintaining power in manipulating
the populous in doing, um,
in inflicting suffering and, uh, I would say evil onto the world.
It's interesting. I, it's interesting.
I'm gonna have to sort of go back into the whole,
so I tend to focus more on the human nature.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> and less about the tools that human nature leverages
to effect change, but you're right. That, uh, in some sense,
money <affirmative> is, uh, a tool which can be, uh,
effectively used to, uh,
perform moral and the moral actions, depending on how it's used.
And there's a feedback between the two, right. There's um,
specifically with money itself, it's
the inci, uh, here's it,
the way I've been posing it lately is that I actually think we typically think
of people as good or bad, or again, trying to label people all the time.
But I think people and their characters are emergent properties of the incentive
structures they inhabit. Yeah. So <affirmative>, you know,
what does Charlie Munger say? Don't show me the incentives.
I'll show you the outcome kind of thing.
This is a flawed incentive structure we've been operating within now. I'm not,
I'm not speaking to the intention. People wanna argue with me all the time,
like Jerome, Powell's not a bad guy. He's doing his best at the central bank.
He's doing what he thinks. He's right. That's fine. Whether that's true or not.
It actually doesn't matter. The intention is divergent from the outcome.
The institution that they are running is premised on deception and theft,
and it is handicapping the productive economy. So when we're even the terms,
we use printing money, you're not creating any new value.
You're not infusing the economy with anything,
any new productive factors whatsoever.
You're just harvesting the economic surplus created by entrepreneurs in the
marketplace. There's,
it's impossible to add any value to an economy by increasing the paper claims on
its savings. So, um,
there's a feedback loop between man and tool between creator and created.
And I think we have to honor the relationship above either one,
right? Trying to put the right people in the system,
or just build the right system. We need both.
Do you think the interesting question,
whether the people that are in control
of central banks or in positions of power there,
if they themselves are malevolent, they themselves are bad actors,
or they're simply like leaves floating along the river,
sort of just the cog, uh, in the machine,
an an and an, a colony that operates in a certain kind of way.
Like where do you put the blame?
Do you put the blame on the way things are operating onto the
individuals or onto the system itself? The idea behind the system,
where, and is it useful to place somewhere?
Cuz for me it might be useful to understand that in order to figure out what the
solution is, I tend to not put the blame on the individual. Like I,
I tend to believe most people are good and want to see themselves as good.
And, and so in that case,
it's very difficult to be truly malevolent as you would need to be, to control,
to gain centralized power at the large scale.
But I know a lot of conspiracy theory theorists,
and just a lot of people think that there is evil humans in the world
that seek power, maintain that power. And they use that power for bad purposes.
I think they're just people and they're just trying to get something for
nothing. Like all of us do <laugh>.
I like this framework of thought that you have well.
Yeah, honestly. Yeah. And that's what the central bank is,
is the ultimate institution to get something for nothing. You, yeah.
Get a perpetual income stream,
the ability to acquire more and more territory in the world through
monopolizing the supply of money.
And you can literally print money.
You can buy your way out of anything and buy your way into anything in the
world. So it is, I think the most,
I'd say the most,
but a group of very intelligent people put this thing together and figured out
how to get something for nothing in perpetuity. Um,
by clouding people's conception of money. And you know,
if we look at the central bank is it's been around for a while,
but the latest implementation, uh, here in the us is the fed, you know,
it's about a hundred years old.
It's an analog age institution that I think has lost a lot of its relevance
in the modern age. Um, and I,
I don't think it will survive the ever galvanizing gaze of the digital age.
There's just too much sunlight, um, too much transparency today.
Ideas move too quickly for something like this to remain relevant, but
there are just people there are just seeking something for nothing.
But I think when you concentrate that much power and that much control that much
wealth into the hands of few, it does change.
Uh, Hayek argued that nature of power. Again,
it's something that we all sort of desire. We to be completely powerless.
You're really unhappy, right? If you're totally powerless, you're a slave.
Someone else tells you what to do. You have no autonomy, it's miserable, right?
So there's this,
it makes the consolidation of power alluring and that we want to protect
ourselves from that slave state, let's say, but like many things,
it can be taken too far.
And when you concentrate power into too few hands,
Hayek argues that it actually change. It transforms,
it becomes something much more intoxicating than it would be if it was held in a
more distributed way. And I think that gets into a lot of these,
you know, they,
I don't know if they call themselves elites or people call them elites or
whatever. Like, um, let's say shareholders of central banks,
people participating in the world, economic forum, things like this.
They come, I guess the incentives, right?
The incentive schema they're in is rewarding them,
constantly telling them everything they're doing saying and thinking is correct.
Come. I just keep getting richer all the time.
And it leads you closer to this definition of evil, which,
um, in the book paradise lost Friedman said evil is the force,
which believes its knowledge is complete.
So these people become more and more convinced that
they have the plan or they have the course of action that will save the world
that if everyone would just listen to them,
that they would lead us to the promise land, right?
Whether this is bill gates saving us from a climate crisis or, uh,
any of these other economic policies that are targeted at a certain outcome,
but almost always diverge almost perfect from that outcome,
creating its opposite effect. Um,
I think that's the problem that we have this mechanism that can concentrate
wealth and power into the fan,
into the hands of so few that it leads to the proliferation of evil,
um, meaning that it convinces people that their knowledge is complete.
Whereas something like a Bitcoin almost
forces the opposite outcome. It
in a Bitcoin denominated world in a pure free market,
the consumer is sovereign.
So you cannot earn value in the world unless you are serving
your fellow man,
unless they have through expressed through their buy and sell decisions in the
marketplace, right?
You've created a satisfaction of a particular want that they value so much,
they've acquired so much of your good or service that you've become rich.
You can only maintain that position of wealth so long as you continue to serve
your fellow man. So,
and it changes the incentives such that dominance in the world
is no longer can no longer be paired with coercion.
It has to be paired with competence. And it's, that's, that's how this,
when we say big Bitcoin and fixes this, that's what we mean.
Like if we're stores that skin in the game,
that balance of incentives and disincentives that help us properly navigate
reality. And it prevents the buildup of systemic rot.
Like we see with the central bank.